The following lists the key-value pairs which can be used for ORBITVIS' .config file. Unlike LINCELLAUT's .config files, ORBITVIS' .config file has no default limit on the length of keys or values. Also unlike LINCELLAUT's .config file, only one space can be used between keys and values. For a more complete description of .config files, see LINCELLAUT's documentation.

mod : This key specifies the modulus used in the given linear cellular automaton. his key expects an integer as its value.

cmode : This key specifies which CMODE to use (see ORBITVIS documentation for valid modes). If omitted, the default CMODE is "iterstate". This key expects a non-quoted string as its value.

colormode : This key specifies which COLORMODE to use (see ORBITVIS documentation for valid modes). If omitted, the default COLORMODE is "drag". This key expects a non-quoted string as its value.

arrangement : This key specifies how the matrices are iterated from screen to screen under "iterall" mode. If omitted, the default mode is "diag". This key expects a non-quoted string as its value.

colortransient : This key specifies what effect transient lengths will have on the visualisation when using "iterall" mode. If omitted, the default value is "mixed". This key expects a non-quoted string as its value.

update : This key specifies the filepath for the update matrix to be used for the given linear cellular automaton, given in .matrix format. The file extension should be included. This key expects a string (with no surrounding quotes).

objects : This key specifies the filepath for the object files' directory. This key expects a string (with no surrounding quotes).

hover : This key specifies whether to turn on vector hovering, which allows us to print info about each vector to the console. If present, HOVERMODE is set to True. If this key isn't listed, HOVERMODE is set to False. If CMODE is "iterplane", this key has no effect (HOVERMODE can't be enabled with this mode). This key does not have a corresponding value.

capture : This key specifies whether to switch to CAPTUREMODE, where a screenshot of each plane is taken and saved to a directory. If present, CAPTUREMODE is set to True. If this key isn't listed, CAPTUREMODE is set to False. This key does not have a corresponding value.

screenshots : This key specifies the directory to place screenshots when in CAPTUREMODE. If the directory does not exist, ORBITVIS will create it for the user. This key expects a string (no surrounding quotes).

maxcaptures : This key specifies the maximum number of screenshots ORBITVIS should take before stopping. If this key is omitted, ORBITVIS will take as many screenshots as needed to get back to the vectors' initial configuration. If the vectors don't go back to their initial configuration (the system has a transient region), ORBITVIS will take as many screenshots as needed to capture all unique configurations of the module. This key expects an integer for its value.

inititer : This key specifies the number of iterations to start on. Essentially, the program will iterate the given number of times before displaying the plane. If omitted, this value defaults to 0. This key expects an integer for its value.

sizeX : This key specifies the width of the window, in pixels, to use on startup. If omitted, this value defaults to 640. This key expects an integer for its value.

sizeY : This key specifies the height of the window, in pixels, to use on startup. If omitted, this value defaults to 480. This key expects an integer for its value.